RP Cloud Overview and Security doc (#1504)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-security-architecture/cloud-safety-reliability.mdx

---
title: Safety and Reliability
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Redpanda Cloud Safety and Reliability  | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Learn how Redpanda Cloud tests for data inconsistency, liveness, and availability during adverse events."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/security/cloud-safety-reliability/" />
</head>

> Safety, reliability, and security are a top priority at Redpanda and an important
> part of the Redanda product development lifecycle. Redpanda continuously performs
> chaos testing on Redpanda Cloud releases to check for data inconsistency, liveness,
> and availability issues during adverse events, which could be: losing brokers,
> network partition or packet drops, or approaching the limits of the system in
> terms of disk, CPU, network, or memory utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Safety, reliability, and security are a top priority at Redpanda and an important
part of the product development lifecycle. Redpanda continuously performs
chaos testing to check for data inconsistency, liveness,
and availability issues during adverse events. It checks for losing brokers,
network partition or packet drops, or approaching system limits in
terms of disk, CPU, network, or memory utilization.
```

## Auditing and testing

To test and ensure Redpanda Cloud adheres to consistency guarantees, Redpanda has

> also undergone [Jepsen validation and testing](https://jepsen.io/analyses/redpanda-21.10.1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
undergone [Jepsen validation and testing](https://jepsen.io/analyses/redpanda-21.10.1).
```

> Additionally, the Redpanda Cloud, SRE, and Security teams run periodic game day
> testing, which simulates a failure or event to test systems, processes, and team
> responses. This game day testing of Redpanda Cloud is designed to verify safety,
> reliability, observability, and security of features, and to identify any regressions
> or new gaps in the system, mental models, alerts, or runbooks. The Redpanda Cloud
> cluster infrastructure is periodically reconciled to prevent state drift from
> building up and causing incidents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the Redpanda Cloud, SRE, and Security teams run periodic game day
testing to simulate a failure or event to test systems, processes, and team
responses. This game day testing is designed to verify safety,
reliability, observability, and security of features, and identify any regressions
or new gaps in the system, mental models, alerts, or runbooks. The Redpanda Cloud
cluster infrastructure is periodically reconciled to prevent state drift from
building up and causing incidents.
```

## Packaging

Redpanda Cloud cluster software artifacts (also known as the meta-package
or Install Pack) are packaged and tested together with each release.
Install Packs undergo a comprehensive certification process on each cloud provider
that Redpanda Cloud supports, and include the testing of upgrades from the latest

> 2 Install Pack patch releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
two Install Pack patch releases.
```

> Redpanda Cloud cluster software artifacts (also known as the meta-package
> or Install Pack) are packaged  and tested together with each Redpanda Cloud release.
> Install Packs undergo a comprehensive certification process involving several types
> of testing run on each cloud provider that Redpanda Cloud supports, and also includes
> the testing of upgrades from the latest 2 Install Pack minor versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda Cloud cluster software artifacts (also known as the meta-package
or Install Pack) are packaged and tested together with each release.
Install Packs undergo a comprehensive certification process on each cloud provider that Redpanda Cloud supports, and include the testing of upgrades from the latest 2 Install Pack patch releases.
```

One output of the Install Pack certification process is a Redpanda configuration
for different limits and quotas, tailored to each supported cloud provider,

> machine, and storage type. These limits and quotas help Redpanda to configure
> Redpanda back pressure mechanisms on behalf of customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
machine, and storage type. These limits and quotas help Redpanda to configure back pressure mechanisms on behalf of customers.
```

> machine, and storage type. These limits and quotas can help users to configure some

Reviewer 2: These limits and quotas helps us configure Redpanda's back pressure mechanisms on behalf of our customers.

Author: @c4milo Can you respond and let me know if this is something that needs to be added to the doc? Thx

# Self-regulation

> Redpanda Cloud adheres to a system automatic self-regulation, as demonstrated with
> its [Tiered Storage](../../../../../../manage/tiered-storage) and automated
> [Cluster Balancing](../../../../../../manage/cluster-maintenance/cluster-balancing)
> feature functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda Cloud adheres to a system automatic self-regulation, as demonstrated in the [Tiered Storage](../../../../../../manage/tiered-storage) and 
[Cluster Balancing](../../../../../../manage/cluster-maintenance/cluster-balancing)
features.
```
